# User Experience - Work in progress
- To make this actually usable, we'd need the user to keep entering their own data to calculate the numbers. We would like a way to save the summary data so the
user can still go back to it and change it but without keeping the original data. How?

- Need to make it convenient to clean and wrangle data

## Features
- data: allow users to put their data here. data is local - site should ideally not have users upload their data to the server unless we have the security in place...
  - data sources: shows you where data is coming from
  - data views: shows you a combined, transformed, filtered, or otherwise manipulated view of data - these are temporary and are separate from data sources
  - data can come from a csv, or other structured files like reports generated by their bank.
    - allow users to clean and transform this data (tag purchases, apply some transform based on a filter)
    - shouldn't overwrite the data source
  - data can be entered in a form:
    - one-time expense vs. recurring expense
  - you can enter tags for each expense
- explore: visualize your data to learn about your spending habits
- experiment: play with numbers in a budget built from scratch or from an existing data set
- home: 
  - shows you your goals, define new goals
  - how much you can spend without feeling guilty (as much to still meet your goals), 
  - a calendar heatmap for the year
  - lets you click on a day to see transactions for that day.

### Frontend stack
- c3
- d3

### area- line chart
- expenses per day
- income per day
- net per day (income -expense)
- running total

### table
Gives you access to data in the budget.
 - play around with data (can't persist it tho! maybe I can using a sqlite db storing files in mem)
 - add tags to categorize data (persist this)
- show the transactions when clicking on the area line data
  - show the description, the amount
- have a search function
  - be able to filter based on:
    - category of purchase
    - date, date ranges
    - change amounts (+/- and abs value)
- be able to highlight rows and columns in the table

- possibly decouple the filter so it applies to all the visuals

### pi chart 
break down expenses by category
- filter data based on date-ranges
- drill down into groups - by year, by month, by week (too small a granularity?)
- expenses based on category
- income based on category

### calendar heat-map
- heatmap by year

#### Playbook
The playbook tells you, according to your data, how much you have left every frequency f (months, bi-weekly, etc.) after bills are paid and payday deposited.
Once you understand that, you can more wisely spend or save your money depending on your goals.
How much money would I have if all expenses were 0? Over a given date range?
What do my total expenses add up to in a year?
After paydays and bills, if I want to save for a down payment of $s in z years, how many times x can I go out and spend an average of y dollars?

The general question that needs answering is, given these goals, these (unavoidable recurring) expenses, and income. How much money will I have left over after a certain time? Is it enought to meet the goals? If so, how much can I still spend and still meet the goals?


